This cover, lecture covers getting data
from the APIs.
APIs are application programming
interfaces.
So for example, most internet companies
like Twitter or Facebook will have
an application inter, programming
interface, or
an API, where you can download data.
For example, you can get data about, you
know,
which users are tweeting, or what they're
tweeting about.
Where you can get information about what
people are posting on Facebook.
You can usually get these with GET
requests with specific URLs as the
arguments.
And so what we're going to be able to do
is to use
the HTTR package to be able to get data
from these web sites.
Usually the first thing that you'll need
to do is create an account.
And, in this case, I don't mean an account
like a user account You actually have
to create an account with the api or
with the development team out of each
particular organization.
So, for example, here we're going to go
to dev.twitter.com/apps and we're going to
create an application.
And in this case, we're going to make an
application using the Twitter handle from
my blog, simplystats.
And so, what we've done now is, we've
logged on using our Twitter details.
And so, you can see I'm logged on as
simply statistics.
And, what I can do is, I can click on this
button to create a new application.
And what that'll do is, that will give me
some numbers that I'm
going to later use to be able to
authenticate the application through R.
And access data.
So you can see here, I've actually already
created an application, which I call
Simply Statistics blog.
And so if I click on that application,
then what
I'm taken to is a page that looks
something like this.
So you can see, this is the application,
and
this is the URL of the application up
there.
And there's some information that I
haven't filled
in about my organization and my
organization's website.
Down here under the Oduff settings, I've
actually see that I have read
and write access to the API and then there
are a bunch of numbers.
I black them out here cause these numbers
are
private to you in the application that you
build.
But you'll have a number a number for your
consumer key Consumer secret.
A request hoping URL, and a authorization
URL.
You are going to want to copy that down
all
of those numbers, once you've created an
application,
because we're going to use them later in
the R code to be able to access the A-P-I.
[SOUND] So, here's what we're going to do.
We're going to use the HTTR package.
So,we're going to load that package and
then we're going to use this command here.
Oauth app so what this is going to
do is start the authorization process for
your application.
And so what you need to do is to you name
the application, this isn't
actually going to get sent to the a p i,
this is just for your convenience.
So I've named it twitter here, because
it's going to be the twitter APP.
From me and then I'm going to input here
in quotes my consumer key that I got from
the application website and I'm going to
put my consumer
secrete here that I got from the
application website.
Then what I'm going to do is take that
application and
I'm going to sign in and I'm going to sign
in using the
token Here that I col, collected from the
website as
well as my TokenSecret that I collected
from the website here.
So once I've done this, I've actually sort
of created the credentials that will allow
me
to access data that is privately held by
Twitter that's only available to people
with an application.
So now what I do is I'm using the GET
command,
this is very similar to what I did when I
was
reading data off the Internet, now I'm
going to use a very
specific URL, this is the URL that
corresponds to the twitter API.
So that's this part of the URL right here.
This is the version of the API that I'm
using,
1.1, which is the current version of the
twitter API.
Then I'm going to look, then I pass it
some more
components which correspond to which data
I'd like to get out.
So in this case, I'd like to get the
statuses on my home timeline, and I'm
going to
get it out as a JSON file, which is
currently the only kind of data supported
by Twitter.
And then I'm going to pass it, instead of
authenticating with the username or a
password, I'm going to pass it the
authentication
I used with this O Auth sign in.
And so what I'll get back is actually the
page that corresponds
to this url which actually is going to be
just some JSON data.
So what I can do is actually use the
content function to extract
the JSON data, so this content function
will actually recognize that it's JSON
data.
And create it's going to use the from
JSOBN function from the R JSON
IO package, so that will return sort of a
structured R object.
Which is a little bit hard to read I font
so what
I'm going to do is I'm going to use the
JSON lite package to reformat
it as a I data frame, so what I do is I
take
the JSON structure that I got out from the
original command to content.
And I convert that struc, structured R
objects back into JSON.
And then I use the JSON lite version of
the from JSON argument to create a data
frame.
And so, what this data frame is now is a
data
frame where each row corresponds to a
tweet in my home timeline.
And so here you can see I'm going to look
at the first row of this data frame.
Which is at the time that I extracted the
data.
The most recent tweet in my home timeline.
I'm going to look at the first four
columns.
The first four columns tell me the time
that the tweet was created, the ID number
for the tweet, the ID string here and then
it's actually the text of the tweet.
So this is the tweet that was the most
recent tweet when I collected the data off
the internet.
So you can do this to actually extract
information from Twitter.
This is actually just the request for how
do you
actually collect information about what's
happening on my home timeline.
But, there's a whole bunch of other
requests that you can do.
There's a bunch of different data that you
can get access to through Twitter.
And so, how did I know what URL to use?
You actually go into the do, the
documentation for the Twitter API, so this
is the same website as before only I'm
going to look at the Twitter documentation
and what I'll get to see is what URL, see
it says resource URL
down here, and that's the URL I'm going to
be passing to my Get command.
It also has a bunch of parameters down
here.
And so, if you look up how to format which
parameters to
send to an API You can actually send a
bunch of different parameters
say you can it how many tweets to collect
from what time
to collect it and so forth depending on
what URL you are accessing.
If you want to get other information, not
just the information about your
home timeline, you can actually go the
main Twitter documentation so this is
the documentation for the latest version
of the API version 1.1 and
it'll give you information about Getting a
bunch of different kinds of information.
So, you can get all sorts of information
about, just, mentions.
You can get information about the user
timeline.
You can get information about the home
You can get information about retweets.
You can download all that information, and
you
can also search through, Twitter, the
Twitter feeds,
and get, specific, tags that you're
interested in
or hashtags that you might be interested
in following.
So in general, you have to look at
the documentation, HTTR allows get, post,
put, delete
requests if you are authorized as you can
see, I was authorized to read and write.
Particular to the time line of simply
stats,
because that's who I created the
application through.
You can also authenticate with a user name
or a password, in some cases.
Most modern API's though use something
like
oauth, like we saw just now with twitter.
HTTR works well with Facebook, Google,
Twitter, Gethb and so forth.
If you go to the HTTR demo component on
Gethub you
can actually see a bunch of examples of
how you access
the different APIs for the different
websites and that's actually where
I modeled this lecture on was the demo for
the Twitter API.